---
layout: page
permalink: /pedagogics/
title: pedagogics
pretty-title: 
type: teaching
description: 
nav: true
nav_order: 1

---

# **Teaching Philosophy**

From my perspective, the foundational principle for teaching philosophy lies in fostering empathic possibilities of learning what conditions all. These were possibilities that lay dormant within us, emerging while we find ourselves asking questions that stop us in our tracks—questions about life, meaning, or why things are the way they are. I still recall, as a child, standing under the stream of water in the shower and wondering why I was in this body and not another’s. It wasn’t a deliberate reflection I sought out, nor was it something I had words for at the time, but it stayed with me. Over the years, I realized that this simple, almost accidental thought was my first encounter with the kind of philosophical wonder that compels us to look at the world anew.

As a philosophy instructor, my role is to create an environment in which the vast canon of philosophical works serves as a reflection of my students’ minds. In doing so, I strive to demonstrate that some of their pre-thematic questions about existence have been eloquently and systematically articulated by numerous thinkers in the discipline. This approach allows us to see that the different branches of philosophy—whether it be metaphysics, ethics, rationalism, empiricism, phenomenology, structuralism, or postmodernism—are not entirely esoteric or distant. Rather, these ideas resonate deeply with our own nascent understanding of existence, as they reflect fundamental questions we have often already begun to ask. Moreover, with my modest qualifications, I strive to be a mirror myself and to encourage my students to become mirrors for one another.

It is not enough, however, to recognize what one already possesses through the works of others for personal growth. It is equally important to recognize one’s deficiencies. Using the analytical tools acquired through their studies, students must confront their perplexing doubts and seek answers that satisfy their intellectual curiosity. This iterative process allows them to move from one question to the next and to persevere in their philosophical journey. I firmly believe that each individual is on his or her own philosophical journey, and that the task of finding one’s own subject of inquiry cannot be undertaken by others. Nonetheless, teachers can provide guidance, inspiration, and support to their students, facilitating their exploration of the myriad questions and potential explanations that “this life” encompasses. Such a panoramic view is invaluable to young students, helping them to affirm the direction of their inquiry.

Two courses I have taught exemplify this approach: Introduction to Philosophy at Bergen Community College and Education and the Aesthetic Experience at Columbia University. In Introduction to Philosophy, I designed a curriculum that introduced students to major traditions in metaphysics while connecting abstract ideas to pressing ethical challenges, such as the implications of artificial intelligence. In Education and the Aesthetic Experience, I guided students through an exploration of how affective dimensions of existence inform human formation. We analyzed texts ranging from William James, John Dewey, and Heidegger to Yuriko Saito’s Everyday Aesthetics, encouraging students to connect philosophical insights with their understanding of culture, as well as with objects encountered in daily use, consumption, and literary works. Both courses have exposed students to diverse theoretical perspectives and fostered an environment where intellectual passions could take root and flourish.

I still vividly remember our Aesthetics course during the spring 2020 lockdown, when, in May, we virtually shared reflections as flowers bloomed outside our windows. One student, enduring a difficult time, called it a rare light. Equally unforgettable are the voices of first-generation college students at Bergen, speaking of how this encounter with systematically taught philosophy reshaped their worldview.

For smaller, more intimate seminar classes, I tend to personalize the experience to create opportunities for students who have already discovered their unique philosophical interests to communicate and share their paths to wisdom. As a teacher, I typically use the Socratic method, challenging their positions and arguments while urging them to identify logical gaps and refine their reasoning or propose alternative solutions. Furthermore, I will embrace the notion, as Socrates proclaimed and consistently demonstrated, that one’s ignorance can be regarded as a privilege. It is only by recognizing that we know nothing about a particular subject that we open ourselves to the possibility of learning about it. I believe that truth can only be attained through such seriousness, and I aspire to be a fellow traveler in the pursuit of truth alongside my students.

---

# **Diversity Statement**

Having grown up in an environment where the cultivation of independent thought was less emphasized, my exposure to philosophy deepened significantly after I arrived at Columbia at the age of 22. Throughout my career as a graduate student, I have keenly felt the constraints that stem from my personal development history, which is characterized by a kind of “otherness.” It often feels like an adult learning a language that most of the people around you have mastered since childhood. Beyond the study of terms, rhetoric, and argumentation, I must immerse myself in a wholly different "referential totality." Nevertheless, amidst occasional self-doubt, I have gradually discovered how the distinctive insights derived from my own background can indispensably enrich my inquiry of essential questions of being human. For instance, my understanding of Eastern religions equips me with a diverse lexicon, examples, and viewpoints that shed light on concepts such as appearance, recurrence, emptiness, and finiteness. As an educator, navigating cross-cultural challenges has deepened my empathy for the unique struggles and insecurities faced by underrepresented students in academia. Recognizing their often-unspoken sufferings, I fervently champion enhanced communication to foster genuine mutual understanding. Furthermore, I endeavor to mentor my students towards intellectual accomplishments that highlight their distinctive roots and narratives.

Moreover, I have observed a disturbing trend of escalating social polarization resulting in the marginalization of numerous groups. Factors such as race, gender, class, and ethnicity contribute to this pervasive injustice, and in today’s globalized era, these factors often intersect and intertwine, creating manifold contradictions of ideology, values, and interests that are difficult to reconcile. As educators, disentangling this new reality presents unprecedented difficulties. Ethically, it becomes imperative to carefully consider how to engage with students when certain preconceived notions are deemed unethical. Ideally, I want to cultivate an inclusive environment that fosters open discussion based on a consensus that respects and acknowledges the diverse thought processes of each student.

Fortunately, within the field of philosophy, we establish an initial presuppositional consensus that the process of dialectical questioning in the pursuit of truth is of paramount importance (for without it, we would not engage in philosophical inquiry). With this shared foundation, I firmly believe that we can eventually arrive at an ethical framework rooted in honesty. As Corinthians says: “Love finds no joy in unrighteousness, but rejoices in the truth.”

Philosophy transcends politics by focusing on the eternal mystery of existence itself. By adopting a metaphysical perspective, it rises above the confines of political bias. Remarkably, this detached position allows us to bring seemingly irreconcilable social antagonisms into a broader, impartial dialogue that facilitates the discovery of common ground. Within philosophy, we can trace the origins of Marxist theory to G. W. F. Hegel, understand liberalism through the works of John Locke, engage in critiques of modernity with thinkers like Martin Heidegger and Gilles Deleuze, and follow Plato’s guidance in exploring ideal models of governance. Philosophy provides avenues for real-world disputes and encourages conceptual debates that combine different points of view. Most importantly, it naturally brings out the real virtues that deserve attention throughout the deliberative process. In my view, this form of questioning, rooted in rationality rather than profit calculation, profoundly benefits diversity in education and better prepares students for the complexities of the diverse society they will encounter after graduation.

