---
layout: page
permalink: /statement/
title: statement
pretty-title: A Time to Scatter Stones and a Time to Gather Stones Together
type: research
description: 
nav: true
nav_order: 1
---


In Lawrence Block’s <i>Eight Million Ways to Die</i>, Chance, an African-American character, makes a striking revelation about a mask from his homeland. He perceives it not as a mere artifact, but as “the real thing.” His connection is more than an aesthetic appreciation; it’s a bridge to ancestral memory, a reflection of timelessness. “The very first piece I bought, I still have it.” He said, “It’s hanging in the bedroom. A Dan mask. Poro Society. I didn’t know shit about African art but I saw it in an antique shop and I responded to the mask’s artistic integrity. [...] What happened was I looked at that piece of smooth black wood and I was looking in a mirror. I saw myself, I saw my father, I was looking back through the damned ages. You know what I’m talking about?”* This encounter with “thingness” in literature initially led me to explore it in the philosophy of education.

My inquiry operates at the intersection of the spatiotemporality of the “thing,” its materiality, its relation to affect (as ostensibly inanimate), and phenomenological methodologies. I am particularly drawn to the aesthetic dimension of this study, which is largely crafted through the lens of Martin Heidegger. This approach uses various facets of human language—everyday conversational tones, literary devices, and graphic representations—to provide hermeneutic insight. The overarching goal is to delineate the intricate relationship between the “thing,” reality, worldliness, sacred existence, and the fundamental essence of humanity, all within the broad educational spectrum.

During my undergraduate studies, in which I earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in English, I discerned a recurring motif in contemporary and modern literature: the depiction of inanimate objects as sentient symbols. Examples of this phenomenon can be found in Maupassant’s animated furniture, Faulkner’s unsettling depiction of a ticking clock seemingly agonizing Christ, Borges’ use of the reflective surface of the mirror to hint at asexual reproduction, or Neil Gaiman’s portray of the new gods of technological devices such as televisions. These pieces led me to realize that things, as presented in semantic context, can function as reservoirs of uncanny or even sacralized knowledge, teeming with meanings that transcend human comprehension. They intricately weave the mundane aspects of everyday life, primitive mystical experiences, the influx of materialism (what Bill Brown might call the “tyranny of things”), and the referential imagination into a cyclical tapestry. Because these things can evolve autonomously in sync with the inherent rhythm of language beyond subjective boundaries, I believe that a phenomenological approach is imperative to decipher both the consciousness and the subconsciousness stored, transmitted, and self-morphosizing within.

In my doctoral dissertation, I conducted a study of Martin Heidegger’s philosophy of art, with a particular focus on his middle and late works. Through an exegetical analysis of Heidegger’s writings, I identified the theoretical framework in which he conceives of the “thing” as a metamorphosis of phenomena influenced by the self-denying oblivion of being, a concept that can be related to the ancient Greek mythology of the region of  λήθε. This research illuminated the enchanting meaning attributed to the “thing” in terms of its root in the <i>existentiality</i> of Dasein, which is gathered through words upon <i>categorial</i> beings to embody the mirroring play of the the Celestial, the Demon, and the Mortal. In addition, I clarified the poetic nature of this self-enclosed realm and its relationship to Heidegger’s broader trajectory of overcoming metaphysics.

Furthermore, in tracing Heidegger’s perspectives on the “thing,” I drew inspiration from his interpretation of Immanuel Kant, introducing epistemological dimensions to my phenomenological approach. My research emphasized Heidegger’s conception of the artwork as a preserving site of the “general essence of the thing.” Drawing on Kant’s Transcendental Aesthetic, I interpreted the “thing” as revealing inherent temporal and spatial facets predetermined by a designing agency absent in mere phenomena. By juxtaposing Kant’s notion of the “supersensible” with Heidegger’s notion of the “earth,” I discerned a teleological motif in art, suggesting a duality akin to Heidegger’s conception of ἀλήθεια/λήθε interplay, which, I argued, embodies freedom in both a cosmological and ethical sense.

While my research incorporates significant elements of idealism, especially within a Kantian framework (which tends to analyze the special aesthetic role of the thing as a medium between phenomenon and nomenon in human consciousness through an <i>a priori</i> lens, a perspective that finds ample support in <i>The Critique of Judgment</i>, I have integrated pluralistic insights that move away from linear deductive logic and delve into the intricate interconnections of sensory experience itself, effectively de-universalizing philosophical discourse. This incorporation draws on views articulated by modern American thinkers such as Stanley Cavell and Hubert Dreyfus. I argue that one of the significant advantages of grounding my methodology in Heidegger’s hermeneutic phenomenology is its capacity to accommodate diverse narratives. It allows for the recognition that many apparently logically contradictory theories are merely different manifestations of being, illuminated in different ways within Dasein. Sometimes these manifestations crystallize into a state of heightened clarity, ultimately leading to objectification. Conversely, they can also manifest as chaotic, vivid, and intensely personal experiences characterized by their inherent ambiguity and corporeality. This gives me the flexibility to engage with the ideas of scholars from various schools of thought.

I recently completed a paper exploring whether a peculiar thing—artificial intelligence (AI)—can replicate consciousness, using my framework to anticipate potential future developments in the field and to consider the ontological relationship between AI and humans under different circumstances. In this paper, I examined how large-scale AI models such as ChatGPT modify our understanding of machine consciousness, prompting a reevaluation of Hubert Dreyfus’ 1970s critique of AI. Dreyfus argued that the limitation of AI lies in its “knowing that,” based on explicit rules, whereas human cognition is rooted in “knowing how.” Modern language models, which are adept at capturing implicit context as a more comprehensive “thing” that preserves a wide range of organic worldliness, challenge this view. Revisiting Heidegger, however, I argued that the core difference between AI and human consciousness is not just cognitive behavior, but the contrast between causation and correlation. I then identified an awareness of causation arising from <i>existential</i> depth, characterized by the absence of human essence, distinguishing it from performance. In this way, I suggested, one could provoke an ethical doctrine by thinking about AI.

In the future, I would like to continue my exploration of the complex relationships between the real, the symbolic, and human experience, delving deeper into the labyrinth of meanings and implications that these relationships hold. This inquiry will go beyond mere ontology, embracing a holistic examination of the cultural and social dimensions of “thingness,” such as its intersection with issues of race and inequality. I will seek to uncover how the perception and treatment of things is shaped by external factors, and how this in turn affects notions of identity and recognition. In addition, I aim to contribute to the field of aesthetic education regarding the meaningfulness of things in our contemporary age, fostering a deeper sense of connection with the secret trace of spirituality hidden in our material surroundings. This will encompass both the philosophical dimensions of “thingness” and its practical implications for education and civic life in general.



*Block, Lawrence. <i>Eight Million Ways to Die</i> (New York: Arbor House, 1985), 98.

